In the new schools of Tibetan Buddhism, there are 3 major lineages. Those are known as Kama Lineage
, or you all know this, that is part of the lineage instruction in the teaching.
So there are 3 lineages, Kama Lineage, as well as Thema Lineages, and the Puyu Vegan Lineages.
Among these 3 lineages, today's teaching belongs to the Thema Lineage.
And whoever this Thema teaching is, then the emanation or the reincarnation of the great Translator
and Sanghi Ishii, or Nooki Sanghi Ishii,
and who was one of the 9 heart-like disciples of the heart disciple of Bhungalope Maesambhava.
And his emanation, Sanghi Ishii's emanation is known as that with the Thaksa Numba, or Ranzen, Th
aksa Numba.
So Thaksa Numba revealed this teaching.
[Thaksa Numba speaking in Tibetan]
And this lineage teaching, also, we received this teaching when we were a child or when we were
very young.
Ever since, we've been also practicing this.
It's not just kind of like occasion, bring up these things, but it has been one of the also
important part of our practices and beliefs.
And that's what we are sharing and offering you to you as we have.
[Thaksa Numba speaking in Tibetan]
So that is really lineage of this teaching.
And then about the Buddha Amitaya, again, of course, you all know this.
But it is, again, part of the lineage because we follow in the lineage teachings.
It's not something that we started here today or the last few days ago.
It is long-lasting, alternative lineage teaching.
And therefore, always in the teachings, we could always glorify, remind, remembering,
and coming back to the home where we are really connected and the best.
So like I'm checking up to the home in a way. And that is what, again, we told a little bit about
the Buddha Amitaya.
[Thaksa Numba speaking in Tibetan]
Now, the Buddha Amitaya, Buddha Amitaya, Buddha Amitava, those are the same Buddhas, different
names,
also known as the Shiddhi, Yiji, Patha, Mepa.
And which means that the immeasurable of the wisdom and the longevity is also the name of the
Buddha Amitaya.
So there are many different names of the Buddha, but this Buddha is not the past historical Buddha
that came and gone.
Nor it is the future coming Buddha, but this is the Buddha Amitaya is living Buddha right this
moment, right this time.
Time, and that's what the Buddha and Kshaktamuni and the Gaurapayama, some of everyone said.
So this is the living Buddha of right now. So that means it's crucible.
[Thaksa Numba speaking in Tibetan]
Where is this Buddha right now? If it's a present Buddha, again in the teaching of the Buddha Kshak
tamuni,
and as well as the Maurya Masambha and other great master's teaching,
this Buddha Amitaya is living in the western direction of our, this world where we are.
In the Buddha Kshaktamuni teaching, as you all know, there is not just one single universe,
but there are so many universes and worlds, every direction, east, west, north, and south,
in the corners of the direction, so forth, up and down.
There is countless universes, as similar as we were we are.
But this, we all heard of the Buddha Amitabha or the Amitayu, is the western direction of this very
universe of the world where we are.
And from this direction, in a way, it is slightly elevated in a way to compare with our, this world
and then the world of the devotee.
Devotee is slightly elevated, kind of, looking, looking at that view of that.
Then Buddha Amitayu is right living Buddha. So right there, or right here.
[Hindi]
And that real land of the devotee is the Tibetan rule, and in Sanskrit language, it is, I think,
the Sukhavati.
We translated this in the Hindi roughly, the land of the bliss, the land of the happiness and the
joy.
In the teachings, the land of the devotee, there is not even the names of the suffering, and the
difficulties existing.
And that is what the pure land of the devotee is.